<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
		xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
		xmlns:xforms="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" >
    <head>
        <title>Merger - Home</title>
        
        <xforms:model id="modelHomeHome">
        
        </xforms:model>
        
        
        <xi:include href="../common/includes/currentUserModel.xml"/>
        
    </head>
    <body>
    
    	<h1>MalariaGEN Calculated Data Merger</h1>

   		<xi:include href="../common/includes/currentUserView.xml"/>
    	
		<p>To produce a merged and flattened data file from two original source data files:</p>
		
		<ol>
			<li><a href="/uploader/">Upload</a> your original source files, i.e. the files containing the data that you want to merge.</li>
			<li>Select two uploaded files that you want to merge.</li>
			<li>Configure the settings for the merging process.</li>
			<li>Press the Merge button to produce a new merged file.</li>
			<li>If necessary, inspect the newly created merged file and reconfigure the merge settings.</li>
			<li>Resolve all of the conflicts in the merged file.</li>
			<li>Press the Flatten button.</li>
			<li><a href="/flattener/files">Download</a> the merged and flattened data file.</li>
		</ol>
    	
    	
    	<p>There are three parts to this web application:</p>
    	
       	<ol>
           	<li><a href="/uploader/">The Uploader</a> - Upload and manage your source files</li>
           	<li><a href="/merger/">The Merger</a> - Merge your source files and manage the merged files</li>
           	<li><a href="/flattener/">The Flattener</a> - Flatten merged files by resolving their conflicts, then create and manage the flattened products</li>
		</ol>
       
       <h2>Glossary</h2>
           
       <dl>
				
			<dt>conflict (or data conflict)</dt>
				<dd>An inconsistent value given in two different uploaded files.</dd>
				     
			<dt>data file</dt>
				<dd>A file containing data. The current version of the Merger application only supports text files with backslash-escaped double-quoted comma-delimited values with line-feed end-of-line characters.</dd>	     
				     
       		<dt>flatten</dt>
				<dd>The process of reducing two separate data files into one file by resolving all conflicts.</dd>
				
			<dt>flattened file</dt>
				<dd>A file that has been produce by merging two different...</dd>

			<dt>merge</dt>
				<dd>The process of combining two different data files.</dd>

			<dt>merged file</dt>
				<dd>A combined representation of the data from two different source files.</dd>

			<dt>Merger repository</dt>
				<dd>A secure file repository containing all of the uploaded data files, along with the merged and flattened data files.</dd>       

			<dt>Merger application</dt>
				<dd>This web-based tool for producing flattened data files from uploaded data files.</dd>       
       
			<dt>uploaded file</dt>
				<dd>A file that has been uploaded to the Merger repository containing the original data.</dd>

       </dl> 
           
    </body>
</html>
