<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
		xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
		xmlns:xforms="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" >
    <head>
        <title>Data Merger - Home - Introduction</title>
        
        <xforms:model id="modelHomeHome">
        
        </xforms:model>
        
        
        <xi:include href="../common/includes/currentUserModel.xml"/>
        
        <!-- TODO: Get the external file working. -->
        <style type="text/css">
			.currentUserView .labelledOutput {
				display: block;
			}
		</style>
        
    </head>
    <body>
    
    	<h1>Data Merger - Home - Introduction</h1>

		<p><a href="/home/">Home</a> &gt; Introduction
		</p>

   		<xi:include href="../common/includes/currentUserView.xml"/>
    	
    	<h2>Quick-Start Guide</h2>
    	
    	<ol>
    		<li>Download files from the <a href="http://www.gmap.net/network/app/topheno_start" target="_blank">Topheno</a> application.</li>
    		<li><a href="/uploader/files">Upload files</a> to the Data Merger application.</li>
    		<li>Select 2 uploaded files</li>
    		<li>Press the Merge button</li>
    		<li>Configure the Join settings</li>
    		<li>Resolve all data conflicts</li>
    		<li><a href="/uploader/files">Download the merged file</a></li>
    	</ol>
    	
    	<h2>Less-Quick Guide</h2>
    	
		<p>To produce a merged data file from two original source data files:</p>
		
		<ol>
			<li><a href="/uploader/files">Upload</a> your original source files, i.e. the files containing the data that you want to merge. See data file in the glossary for the required format.</li>
			<li>Select two uploaded files that you want to merge.</li>
			<li>Configure the Join settings.</li>
			<li>Press the Merge button to produce a joined representation. See joined representation in the glossary for notes on importing and exporting these representations as files.</li>
			<li>If necessary, inspect the newly created joined representation and reconfigure the joined settings.</li>
			<li>Resolve all of the conflicts in the joined representation.</li>
			<li>Press the Flatten button.</li>
			<li><a href="/flattener/files">Download</a> the merged data file. See merged file in the glossary for the exported format.</li>
		</ol>
    	
    	<h2>...</h2>
    	
    	<p>There are three parts to this Merger application:</p>
    	
       	<ol>
           	<li><a href="/uploader/">The Uploader</a> - Upload your source data files. See data file in the glossary for the required format.</li>
           	<li><a href="/joiner/">The Joiner</a> - Join your uploaded files together and inspect the joined representations.</li>
           	<li><a href="/flattener/">The Flattener</a> - Flatten joined representations by resolving all their conflicts. You can then produce and download completely merged files, along with their provenance reports.</li>
		</ol>
       
       <p>
			<a href="/home/glossary">Glossary</a>
       </p>
       
       <!-- TODO: Make UI can-do adaptive. -->
       <p>
			<a href="/service/admin/install.xql">Install</a>
       </p>
           
    </body>
</html>
